[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My position on Western
medicine and the use of cut,
burn, and poison
therapies, as I call them,
is such that if it's
going to be lifesaving,
or if it's going to arrest
symptomatology, then it--
then it must be used.
But simultaneously,
the consideration
of changes in terms of diet and
exercise are equally important
and must be emphasized as well.
As soon as you prescribe a drug,
or surgery, or chemotherapy,
or radiotherapy,
and I've treated
a lot of cancer patients.
As soon as you prescribe
a drug, you're actually
compromised their health.
You're going to actually
obstruct an enzyme.
You're going to actually utilize
more nutrients than the patient
can afford to spend.
Because most of
the drugs that are
being used metabolic blockers.
They modify metabolic pathways
by consuming extra nutrients
and increasing
requirements for nutrients.
And it's been well-documented
that drugs, including
antibiotics, interfere
with metabolic processes,
either in the
liver or in the gut
or changing gut bacteria
balances and so on.
So it is always the
part of medicine
that is an art
that's required when
you decide on the
management of the patient.
So if somebody comes in
and they've got a cancer,
it's going to obstruct
a major blood vessel
or penetrate a major organ.
And you're going to
give them chemotherapy.
But you've got to
operate at the same time.
The first thing I would
do with that patient
is wait as long as I possibly
can before I give them
chemotherapy and
operate on them.
And I'd have a drip up with
some nutrients going in
at high levels, to actually
improve their ability
to cope with the
chemotherapy and the surgery
and or radiotherapy.
Now that model
applies whether it
be somebody with cancer, or
somebody with heart disease,
or somebody who's
simply broken a bone
and going in for surgery.
You've got to look at
all of these things.
If they're low in
zinc, they're going
to get infections, because
the immune system's going
to be compromised.
If they're low in
essential fatty acids,
they could end up
with depression.
If they're low in
vitamin B12, they
could end up with anemia
and so on and so forth.
So the most important
thing is to optimize
the health of that person before
you cut, burn, and poison.
Now that's going
to be, and will be,
a part of a future
health system.
We just have to make
sure that the politicians
and the regulators are
aware of what is needed.
And we have to deal with
the obstruction that
will come from the
various vested interests
in the professional arena.
But once we do that,
and it will happen,
we will have a system whereby
people do get a fair deal out
of health.
At the moment they're getting
the best in medical care
in this country that can be
provided anywhere in the world,
but they're not getting
very good health care.
There is, in all cancer, a
disturbance in chromosomes.
They've broken up.
And they start
malfunctioning and the genes
start malfunctioning.
And cells won't die
when they should die.
So there is a misreading
of the genetic material.
Cells won't die.
They won't go
through the process
of apoptosis, which is suicide.
When they get old, they just
basically replicate, multiply,
and grow in an uncontrolled
and excessive manner.
That is what cancer is.
I believe that we can
prevent a lot of cancers
with stress management,
with proper diet,
therefore, feeding the genes
with the right nutrients.
And nutrients that will
repair damaged genes.
We can cause cancers with
viruses, with chemicals,
with radiation.
But we can repair
the damage done
by these things
with various enzymes
in the nuclei that repair
the cancer genes or cancer.
But I don't believe that there's
any such thing as a cancer
gene.
I don't think we were
meant to have cancer genes.
I think it's-- they're
malfunctioning genes, yes.
But there's no such thing
to me as a cancer gene.
When you look at the
population of patients
who come in with cancer
in the early stages
and look at levels of
nutrients in their system,
you often find deficiencies.
They may be vitamin,
the antioxidant group,
the As, Cs, and
Es and the family
of nutrients related
to vitamin A, C and E,
or B group vitamins.
But underlying it all, I think
there is an important role
for trace elements.
Trace elements play a role in
enzymes that repair your genes.
And some of the work
that we have done,
and still doing, in terms
of skin cancer, we are using
trace elements.
That are toxic to skin
cancer cells but not toxic
to normal cells.
And these are trace
elements that you and I
get in our diet every day.
If you can get a particular
trace element into a cancer
cell, the cancer cell
will read it in a way,
probably through
protein metabolism,
that will actually switch on
the so-called apoptotic gene.
And the cancer will die.
We're doing some work with
trace elements in skin cancer.
We're seeing skin
cancers disappearing
without eroding the skin,
without burning the skin,
without damaging the skin.
Basically the cancer
melts away slowly.
And the normal skin
moves in and replaces it.
Now this is very early work.
But basically, it's using an
anti-inflammatory substance
from nature plus a trace
element, bond it together,
and then taking the trace
element inside the cell
to correct its metabolism.
Now I'm not saying
that that's necessarily
a cure for all cancers.
But it's a very, very
interesting observation.
And it's an observation
that we made in our clinics
by accident, which is where a
lot of scientific discoveries
are made.
I think we have to
look at the statement,
it's illegal to cure cancer
without using chemotherapy,
radiotherapy and surgery.
But it's not illegal to give
somebody who's got cancer
a dietary and lifestyle program.
And if that helps
them, then so be it.
Nobody can say that's
illegal and have a go at you.
In our clinics, we had
doctors and natural therapists
who treat patients with cancer,
with diet, with meditation,
with exercise.
You have a right to
self-care and self-help.
We need to, again, teach the
regulators, the politicians,
the doctors, and get
to the universities,
and the people
training in medicine
to understand that
there are plants
with anti-cancer properties.
There are plants with
anti-nausea and anti-vomiting
properties.
There are plants that
will help with [rashes.
will help with headaches
and tiredness that occur as
a result of chemotherapy.
And we've got to make
sure that the public know
that if you're having a chemo--
chemo drug, that
some of the drugs
are helped in terms of
reducing their toxicity
with trace elements like zinc
and copper or with herbs.
In particular, licorice root
extract can be of assistance.
People need to be made aware of
the great benefit of improving
their health if they've got a
cancer or whatever disease--